---
layout: podcast
title: |
    The Future of 5G and 4G: A Deep Dive with Guillaume Bélanger
date: "2024-03-11T00:00:00+01:00"
duration: 42
episode: 6
guest: Guillaume Bélanger
description: |
    In this episode of "Nerding Out With Viktor," Guillaume Bélanger from Canonical explores the impact of open source on the telecom industry, the advancements in 5G and 4G technologies, the potential of e-SIMs, the role of software-defined networking, and the challenges and benefits of establishing private 5G networks.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G4nEREpTZGc
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/1M9mlYn84Pfrz7j1pfxSsx
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-future-of-5g-and-4g-a-deep-dive-with-guillaume-belanger/id1722663295?i=1000648700108
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/96fec8f6-802a-45ef-9760-2c11c1e0556e/nerding-out-with-viktor-the-future-of-5g-and-4g-a-deep-dive-with-guillaume-belanger
---

Join us on a fascinating journey through the evolving landscape of 5G and 4G technologies in this episode of Nerding Out With Viktor. Our special guest, Guillaume Bélanger from Canonical, brings a wealth of knowledge and experience in the telecom sector. Guillaume's insights shed light on how open source is revolutionizing the telecom industry, particularly in the management of private networks and projects.

The episode covers groundbreaking projects like Magma and SD-Core, the transformative potential of e-SIMs, and the intriguing prospect of 5G eventually becoming the new Wi-Fi standard. We delve into the technical nuances of 5G, exploring the core and radio networks, the importance of software-defined networking, and the intricacies of private 5G network setup.

Guillaume discusses the challenges and practical considerations in establishing private 5G networks, including hardware requirements and regulatory aspects. The episode also touches on the emerging roles of tech giants like Google and Amazon in the telecom industry.

Tune in to this episode of Nerding Out With Viktor for an in-depth discussion on the latest advancements in 5G and 4G technologies with expert Guillaume Bélanger from Canonical.