---
layout: podcast
title: |
    The Future of Personal AI and Privacy: A Deep Dive with Kin Co-Founder Simon Westh Henriksen
date: "2024-04-08T00:00:00+01:00"
duration: 59
episode: 8
guest: Simon Westh Henriksen
description: |
    In this episode of "Nerding Out with Viktor," Simon Westh Henriksen, co-founder of Kin, discusses the intersection of AI, machine learning, and digital privacy, emphasizing data sovereignty and the development of a privacy-first personal AI assistant, while exploring future AI interactions, decentralized web nodes, and ethical considerations in AI development.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=341_FLnhe5s
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/4LlXoF8oZFqhCU356rZ4KW
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-future-of-personal-ai-and-privacy-a-deep/id1722663295?i=1000651715829
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/9da16f7c-d7b5-4cbf-9fce-16a1c43bf5e8/nerding-out-with-viktor-the-future-of-personal-ai-and-privacy-a-deep-dive-with-kin-co-founder-simon-westh-henriksen
---

In this episode of "Nerding Out with Viktor," host Viktor engages in an enlightening conversation with Simon Westh Henriksen, the co-founder of [Kin](https://mykin.ai/) (formerly known as Hyphen), a company revolutionizing the intersection of AI, machine learning, and digital privacy. The discussion delves into the evolving landscape of Web3 and data sovereignty, emphasizing the significance of individual ownership and control over digital data in an AI-centric world.

Simon shares his journey from a software engineering background to venturing into tech startups, highlighting his experiences in various industries before co-founding Kin. He discusses the challenges and learnings from his entrepreneurial endeavors, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic, which ultimately led him to explore the Web3 space.

The conversation shifts to focus on the core of Kin's mission: building a privacy-first, personal AI assistant. Simon explains the technical challenges and innovations in creating an AI that respects user privacy while being highly functional and personal. He discusses Kin's approach to handling data locally on devices, the importance of data sovereignty, and the balance between user convenience and security.

Further, they explore the future of AI interaction, considering the potential of AI agents communicating with each other and the concept of decentralized web nodes for data portability. The discussion also touches on the challenges of AI hallucinations and the ethical considerations of AI development.

Simon concludes by inviting listeners to explore Kin further and calls for engineers interested in pushing the boundaries of AI and privacy to join their team. He encourages interested individuals to sign up for Kin's beta and contribute to shaping the future of personal AI.

Viktor wraps up the episode, reflecting on the thought-provoking insights shared by Simon and the exciting possibilities that Kin's innovations present for the future of AI and privacy.
