---
layout: podcast
title: |
    A Global Mission to Connect: Unveiling Giga's Journey with Chris Fabian from Giga
date: "2024-02-26T00:00:00+01:00"
duration: 70
episode: 5
guest: Chris Fabian
description: |
    In this episode of "Nerding Out With Viktor," Chris Fabian, co-founder of Giga, discusses the project's mission to connect every school in the world to the internet, detailing his career at UNICEF, the innovative use of technology and blockchain, the economic and educational impacts of internet connectivity, and the challenges and solutions in providing equitable access through open-source and regulatory support.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viBq51UGi40
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/0H0W4Pdo2lNY04St6Ap5uY
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/a-global-mission-to-connect-unveiling-gigas-journey/id1722663295?i=1000646816735
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/e7b11487-97f6-4c29-8a35-2192f3fed2c6/nerding-out-with-viktor-a-global-mission-to-connect-unveiling-giga's-journey-with-chris-fabian-from-giga
---

In this episode of "Nerding Out With Viktor," host Viktor interviews Chris Fabian, co-founder of Giga, a project aimed at connecting every school in the world to the internet. Chris's career at UNICEF and his focus on technology for global good set the stage for this initiative. Giga, started about four years ago, addresses the staggering statistic that approximately 70% of schools worldwide are disconnected from the internet.

Chris recounts his career journey, from establishing internet service providers in East Africa to innovating at UNICEF, where he helped initiate the first public sector crypto fund and a venture capital-like fund for technology solutions in emerging markets. These experiences revealed the critical need for internet access to support digital companies and led to the inception of Giga.

Giga's approach involves mapping schools using open-source machine learning and satellite imagery, revealing significant gaps in existing government data. This mapping process, covering about 2.1 million schools to date, is critical for understanding the scope of the internet connectivity challenge.

The project also involves determining the real-time internet connectivity of schools, employing a variety of techniques from government data to software probes in schools. This data helps in making informed decisions and advocating for better connectivity solutions.

Chris discusses the economic and educational impact of school connectivity, citing a report indicating that increasing school connectivity can significantly boost schooling years and GDP per capita. He emphasizes the importance of blockchain technology in Giga's approach, envisioning schools as nodes in a decentralized network that can facilitate not only educational but also financial services.

The conversation also touches on various technological aspects of connectivity, including the role of different technologies like fiber, radio, and satellites, regulatory challenges, and the potential of open-source solutions in breaking monopolistic behaviors in the telecom industry.

Chris expresses concerns over initiatives like Facebook's Internet.org, which create walled gardens rather than offering true internet access, and stresses the importance of open access and fair pricing in internet provision.

The interview concludes with Chris reflecting on the evolution of the internet from its early days to its current state, its potential dangers, especially for young users, and the shift towards mobile devices as the primary form of internet access. He reiterates the importance of data, open-source solutions, and regulatory support in ensuring equitable and widespread internet access through initiatives like Giga.