---
layout: podcast
title: "Unveiling SBOMs: Insights from Allan Friedman of CISA"
date: "2024-07-29T00:00:00+01:00"
duration: 86
episode: 16
guest: Allan Friedman
description: |
    In the latest episode of "Nerding Out with Viktor," Allan Friedman from the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) joins me to explore the critical role of Software Bill of Materials (SBOMs) in cybersecurity. We delve into CISA's mission, the evolution and importance of SBOMs, and the technical nuances of SBOM formats like CycloneDX and SPDX. Allan provides valuable insights on the challenges and solutions in generating and using SBOMs, the impact of international policies, and the future of secure software supply chains. This episode is essential for anyone involved in software development, cybersecurity, or IT management, offering practical guidance and a deep understanding of SBOMs and their significance.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E77ohYZA2vo
spotify:
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/nerding-out-with-viktor/id1722663295?i=1000663625721
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/6dec5f6b-e4e6-4a11-9c99-5d2a0ed6aa5a/nerding-out-with-viktor-sboms-and-cybersecurity-a-deep-dive-with-allan-friedman

---

In the latest episode of "Nerding Out with Viktor," I had the pleasure of hosting Allan Friedman from the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). We delved into the fascinating and complex world of Software Bill of Materials (SBOMs). Allan brought his wealth of knowledge and expertise to the table, providing a comprehensive understanding of SBOMs, their significance, and the latest advancements in the realm of cybersecurity.

## Key Topics Discussed:

1. **Understanding CISA's Role:**
   Allan kicked off the conversation by explaining the pivotal role of CISA. As the lead US government civilian cybersecurity agency, CISA's mission is to defend today and secure tomorrow. Allan elaborated on their operational roles, including securing the American civilian government, addressing ongoing threats against businesses and communities, and building more secure infrastructure. He also highlighted CISA's international partnerships and collaborations with other US government cybersecurity hubs.

2. **Introduction to SBOMs:**
   We took a deep dive into the concept of Software Bill of Materials (SBOMs). Allan explained that an SBOM is akin to a list of ingredients for software, providing transparency about the components within a software package. He emphasized the importance of knowing what's in our software, drawing parallels to the transparency we expect from food labels.

3. **Development and Impact of SBOMs:**
   Allan traced the evolution of SBOMs, from their inception at the National Telecom and Information Administration (NTIA) to their current status. We discussed the executive orders that have propelled SBOM adoption and the international collaborations, such as those with the UK and Japan, which are driving global implementation.

4. **Technical Aspects and Formats:**
   The technical intricacies of SBOMs were unpacked, focusing on the two major formats: CycloneDX and SPDX. Allan provided insights into their origins, key differences, and the communities that support them. We explored the importance of these formats in different sectors and their roles in ensuring software transparency and security.

5. **Challenges and Solutions:**
   Addressing the practical challenges in generating and using SBOMs was a major part of our discussion. Allan shared valuable insights into the need for automation in SBOM generation, the complexities of dynamic software environments, and the importance of ensuring data accuracy and integrity.

6. **Auxiliary Features and Future Trends:**
   We explored related tools and standards such as VEX (Vulnerability Exploitability Exchange) and the role of attestation in securing SBOMs. Allan discussed the future trends in SBOMs, including the integration of additional data layers like cryptographic build materials and AI-generated software components.

## Episode Highlights:

- Allan's expert perspective on the intersection of open-source software and SBOMs.
- The critical role SBOMs play in enhancing transparency and security in software development and deployment.
- The impact of international policies and frameworks on SBOM adoption and standardization.
- Practical advice for organizations starting their SBOM journey and insights into the future of secure software supply chains.

## Why This Episode Matters:

This episode is a must-listen for anyone involved in software development, cybersecurity, or IT management. It offers a thorough understanding of SBOMs, practical guidance on implementing them, and a glimpse into the future of software security. Allan Friedman's insights are invaluable for organizations looking to enhance their cybersecurity posture and ensure the integrity of their software supply chains.

## Show Notes

* [SBOM-o-Rama Winter 2024](https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/events/sbom-rama-winter-2024)
* Episode Sponsor: [sbomify](https://sbomify.com)
