---
layout: podcast
title: "From Passwords to Passkeys: Exploring the Future of Authentication with Massi Gori"
date: "2024-11-04T00:00:00+01:00"
duration: 64
episode: 23
guest: Massi Gori
description: |
    In this episode of Nerding Out with Viktor, industry expert Massi Gori joins the conversation to dive into the world of server management and authentication trends. With his unique perspective on FIDO2 and its applications in enterprise settings, Massi sheds light on how companies can leverage modern security solutions like passkeys, OpenSSH certificates, and Vault to enhance their overall security posture. Join Viktor Petersson as he explores the intersection of server management and authorization with Massi Gori, featuring insights into the future of authentication and access control.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SrcRtQCjqDM
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/4qflFEN7Q1pVFSFREifdZb?si=2ee9a7c26ae345fe
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/nerding-out-with-viktor/id1722663295?i=1000675608719
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/a567c631-a818-4f4a-a7fe-fee3280b6012/nerding-out-with-viktor-from-passwords-to-passkeys-exploring-the-future-of-authentication-with-massi-gori

---

In this episode of *Nerding Out with Viktor*, Viktor is joined by Massi Gori, an expert in authentication and identity management, for a deep dive into the evolution and future of digital security. Massi, a veteran in the field and currently a product manager at Canonical, shares insights from nearly two decades of experience covering everything from legacy systems to the latest in passwordless technology.

The conversation begins with a look back at the origins of authentication technology, where foundational protocols like LDAP and Kerberos first addressed the need for secure, shared computing environments. Massi recounts the rise of SAML, OAuth, and OpenID, which paved the way for Single Sign-On (SSO) and federated identity management, now essential for secure, streamlined access across multiple systems.

Viktor and Massi explore the critical difference between authentication (establishing identity) and authorization (defining access permissions), explaining how each fits into the broader framework of identity management. Massi also outlines the importance of user management and governance, key elements in maintaining security at scale. They discuss the progression from early hardware tokens to today’s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) options, which have made secure access more accessible and manageable for users worldwide.

The focus then shifts to the advancements of FIDO2 and WebAuthn standards, which represent a significant step toward a passwordless future. Massi delves into how these standards work to enhance security by protecting against advanced threats like adversary-in-the-middle attacks. He explains how continuous verification through biometrics, behavioral analysis, and device-based security is central to the zero-trust model, which increasingly underpins secure access policies.

In the latter part of the episode, Viktor and Massi discuss the latest development in passwordless technology: passkeys. By combining the security benefits of FIDO2 with the convenience of cloud synchronization, passkeys allow users to maintain secure access without relying on traditional passwords. The duo compares the strengths of physical hardware tokens, such as YubiKeys, with the ease of use offered by passkeys, giving listeners a clear picture of the trade-offs between these options.

This episode offers listeners a compelling exploration of the latest trends in authentication technology, with insights on how companies can stay ahead of security challenges in an increasingly connected world. Whether you’re a tech enthusiast or a security professional, this conversation provides valuable perspectives on the future of digital identity.

{% include transcript.html %}