---
layout: podcast
title: Nerding out about Prometheus and observability with Julius Volz, PromLabs/Prometheus
date: "2024-01-15T00:00:00+00:00"
duration: 65
episode: 2
guest: Julius Volz
description: |
    In this episode, Julius Volz, co-founder of Prometheus, dives deep into the technical intricacies of his pioneering monitoring system, sharing best practices for server monitoring, unique use cases, and future trends in observability that every tech enthusiast should know about. Join host Viktor Petersson as he explores the world of Prometheus with Julius' expert insights and gets a live demo of PromQL - don't miss out on this opportunity to level up your monitoring game!
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gaUopdFlgko
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/0w5ZCYcvJ3HHq4xNGEjWbb
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/nerding-out-about-prometheus-and-observability-with/id1722663295?i=1000639810962
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/c2bfb1bf-86bc-420b-b76c-101903a5f982/nerding-out-with-viktor-nerding-out-about-prometheus-and-observability-with-julius-volz-promlabs-prometheus

---

In this captivating episode of "Nerding Out with Viktor," co-hosts delve into a comprehensive conversation with Julius Volz, the co-founder of Prometheus and founder of PromLab. As they nerd out over the intricacies of systems monitoring and observability, listeners are treated to an in-depth exploration of the open-source monitoring system that has set the gold standard for metrics-based systems monitoring.

Julius shares his personal journey, from his time at Google working with Borgmon to co-creating Prometheus as a solution to the limitations of existing open-source monitoring systems. Through their conversation, Viktor and Julius break down the technical aspects of Prometheus, including its innovative dimensional data model, powerful query language (PromQL), and efficient handling of time series data.

Julius highlights some common pitfalls that new users often encounter, particularly around metric design and the issue of "cardinality bombs." This insider knowledge will undoubtedly prove invaluable to listeners looking to optimize their server monitoring setups. The conversation then flows into a discussion on best practices in server monitoring, with Julius emphasizing the critical role of Prometheus' alert manager.

One of the standout aspects of this episode is the exploration of long-term data storage challenges and the innovative solutions that have emerged, such as Cortex and Thanos. Listeners will appreciate Julius' pragmatic advice on handling large datasets, ensuring seamless scalability for their systems.

Throughout the conversation, Viktor and Julius effortlessly weave together technical insights, real-world use cases, and industry trends. The duo dives into the simplicity and flexibility of writing Prometheus exporters, even for those with minimal coding experience. This practical guidance highlights the democratizing power of Prometheus, making it accessible to a broad range of users.

In a live demonstration, Julius showcases PromQL's capabilities, demonstrating functions like `rate`, `irate`, and `increase` and their applications in real-world scenarios. This hands-on tutorial is sure to leave listeners with a deepened understanding of Prometheus' query language and its potential for unlocking new insights into system performance.

As the conversation unfolds, Viktor and Julius touch upon future trends in observability, including the role of eBPF in Prometheus, integration with OpenTelemetry, and the ongoing evolution of the OpenMetrics project. Listeners will appreciate Julius' forward-thinking perspective on these emerging technologies and their implications for systems monitoring and observability.

Julius also shares his current focus on providing Prometheus training through PromLabs, where he offers both live and self-paced courses. This initiative underscores the importance of community-driven education and skill-building in the tech industry.

This episode is a must-listen for anyone passionate about systems monitoring, observability, and the technical underpinnings that make these technologies tick. Viktor's engaging conversation style and Julius' extensive expertise ensure that even the most complex topics are made accessible to listeners. As they nerd out together, Viktor and Julius leave no stone unturned in their exploration of Prometheus' pivotal role in the evolving landscape of systems monitoring and observability.