---
layout: podcast
title: |
    A Global Mission to Connect: Unveiling Giga's Journey with Chris Fabian from Giga
date: "2024-02-26T00:00:00+01:00"
duration: 70
episode: 5
guest: Chris Fabian
description: |
    In this episode, Chris Fabian, co-founder of Giga, joins Viktor Petersson for a thought-provoking discussion on connecting every school in the world to the internet. From leveraging innovative technologies like blockchain to tackling the economic and educational impacts of internet access, Chris shares his expertise gained at UNICEF and reveals the transformative power of equitable connectivity through open-source and regulatory support.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viBq51UGi40
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/0H0W4Pdo2lNY04St6Ap5uY
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/a-global-mission-to-connect-unveiling-gigas-journey/id1722663295?i=1000646816735
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/e7b11487-97f6-4c29-8a35-2192f3fed2c6/nerding-out-with-viktor-a-global-mission-to-connect-unveiling-giga's-journey-with-chris-fabian-from-giga

---

In this riveting episode of "Nerding Out with Viktor," Viktor sits down with Chris Fabian, co-founder of Giga, a pioneering project dedicated to bridging the digital divide by connecting every school in the world to the internet. This conversation is a masterclass in innovation, technology, and global connectivity, offering listeners a unique glimpse into the challenges and opportunities shaping the future of education and communication.

As Chris shares his remarkable journey, from establishing internet service providers in East Africa to driving innovation at UNICEF, it becomes clear that his expertise lies at the intersection of technology and social impact. His experiences have instilled in him a deep understanding of the critical need for widespread internet access to support digital development, culminating in the creation of Giga.

The episode delves into the intricacies of Giga's approach, which involves using open-source machine learning and satellite imagery to map schools worldwide. This groundbreaking method has uncovered significant gaps in existing government data, providing invaluable insights into where the need for internet access is most urgent. To date, Giga has mapped an impressive 2.1 million schools, shedding light on the true scale of the connectivity challenge.

One of the key takeaways from this conversation is the importance of accurate, real-time data in making informed decisions and advocating for effective connectivity solutions. Chris explains how Giga determines internet connectivity by using a combination of government data and software probes installed in schools. This data-driven approach is crucial for ensuring that initiatives like Giga are truly meeting the needs of communities worldwide.

The conversation also explores the economic and educational impact of school connectivity, with Chris citing a report that highlights the significant boost in years of schooling and GDP per capita associated with increasing school connectivity. He emphasizes the role of blockchain technology in Giga's vision, seeing schools as nodes in a decentralized network that can support not only educational services but also financial inclusion.

Throughout the episode, Viktor and Chris engage in a thought-provoking discussion on various technological aspects of connectivity, including the roles of fiber, radio, and satellites. They also touch on regulatory challenges and the potential of open-source solutions to disrupt monopolistic practices in the telecom industry.

Chris's concerns about initiatives like Facebook's Internet.org, which create walled gardens rather than offering true internet access, serve as a timely reminder of the importance of open access and fair pricing in internet provision. He stresses that all users should be able to benefit from the full potential of the web, emphasizing the need for equitable and widespread internet access.

As the conversation draws to a close, Chris reflects on the evolution of the internet from its early days to its current state, particularly its potential dangers for young users and the shift towards mobile devices as the primary form of internet access. He reiterates the importance of data, open-source solutions, and regulatory support in achieving equitable and widespread internet access through initiatives like Giga.

This episode is a testament to the transformative power of projects like Giga in bridging the digital divide. With Chris Fabian's expertise and passion at its core, "Nerding Out with Viktor" offers an engaging and informative exploration of the challenges and opportunities shaping the future of global connectivity.