---
layout: podcast
title: Exploring the C2PA Standard with Dom Guinard from Digimarc
date: "2024-02-13T00:00:00+01:00"
duration: 61
episode: 4
guest: Dom Guinard
description: |
    In this episode, Dom Guinard from Digimarc joins Viktor to delve into the revolutionary C2PA standard, a game-changer for digital content provenance and authenticity in the age of generative AI. As creator rights face increasing threats from deepfakes and unauthorized content use, Dom shares his expertise on how C2PA protects artistic integrity and ensures the legitimacy of online content, making it a must-listen for anyone interested in the intersection of tech, art, and innovation.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukBfOT2DaoI
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/4lvhRkQlHNCz0XiKVif4WA
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/exploring-the-c2pa-standard-with-dom-guinard-from-digimarc/id1722663295?i=1000639810961
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/0b303d38-c449-470d-ac88-ce9369ed7bc5/nerding-out-with-viktor-exploring-the-c2pa-standard-with-dom-guinard-from-digimarc

---

In this thought-provoking episode of "Nerding Out with Viktor," our host delves into the fascinating world of digital content standards, exploring the latest developments and their implications on authenticity and creator rights. Joining Viktor is Dom Guinard from Digimarc, a seasoned expert in IoT and digital standards who shares his insights on the evolving landscape of digital content.


As they dive deeper into the intricacies of digital content, Viktor and Dom tackle some pressing issues that are top of mind for anyone involved in creating or consuming online content. The conversation centers around the C2PA (Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity) standard, a pioneering initiative aimed at combatting deepfakes and unauthorized content use. This technology has far-reaching implications, as it seeks to establish trustworthiness in digital content by leveraging metadata, watermarking, and hardware integration.

Through their engaging discussion, Viktor and Dom shed light on the critical role of standards like C2PA in today's increasingly complex digital world. By protecting creator rights and ensuring authenticity, these standards empower creators to have more control over their work while also safeguarding against malicious activities that can compromise content integrity.

Dom Guinard's unique perspective as a leader in innovation at Digimarc brings valuable context to the conversation. His contributions to C2PA and his work in shaping digital standards offer a fascinating glimpse into the future of digital content authenticity and protection. As they navigate through the technical aspects of C2PA, Viktor and Dom provide listeners with an in-depth understanding of how this standard is poised to revolutionize the way we approach digital content.

One key takeaway from this episode is that digital content standards like C2PA are more crucial than ever. They play a vital role in promoting content trust and integrity, ensuring that creators' rights are respected, and preventing malicious activities such as deepfakes. As Viktor and Dom discuss the importance of these standards in light of recent technological advancements, they highlight the need for innovative solutions to protect digital content.

The episode also explores how C2PA fits seamlessly into current technological ecosystems, enhancing the trustworthiness of digital content. This is particularly relevant given the US executive order on AI and digital content, which underscores the significance of addressing these challenges through collaborative efforts like the C2PA standard.

Throughout their conversation, Viktor and Dom provide listeners with a wealth of information and insights. From exploring the technical aspects of C2PA to discussing its potential impact on the future of digital content, this episode is an invaluable resource for anyone looking to stay ahead in today's rapidly evolving tech landscape.

For those eager to learn more about the topics discussed in this episode, Viktor and Dom provide a range of useful links. The C2PA Standard website offers detailed information on how this technology works, while the Content Authenticity Initiative provides insights into its broader applications. Additionally, Digimarc's C2PA Chrome Extension is available for download, allowing users to experience firsthand the benefits of this innovative standard.

In summary, this episode of "Nerding Out with Viktor" is a must-listen for anyone involved in creating or consuming digital content. Through their engaging conversation and thought-provoking insights, Viktor and Dom Guinard from Digimarc offer listeners a comprehensive understanding of the importance of digital content standards like C2PA. By exploring the intricacies of this technology and its potential impact on the future of digital content, they empower creators to have more control over their work while also safeguarding against malicious activities that can compromise content integrity.

* [Visit the C2PA Standard website](https://c2pa.org) for more information.
* [Explore the Content Authenticity Initiative](https://contentauthenticity.org) to learn more about its applications.
* [Download Digimarc's C2PA Chrome Extension](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/c2pa-content-credentials/mjkaocdlpjmphfkjndocehcdhbigaafp?hl=en&pli=1) to experience the benefits of this innovative standard.