---
layout: podcast
title: |
    Exploring the Depths of Linux and Open Source Innovation with Mark Shuttleworth
date: "2024-06-17T00:00:00+01:00"
duration: 64
episode: 13
guest: Mark Shuttleworth
description: |
    In this episode of "Nerding Out With Viktor," Mark Shuttleworth, founder of Ubuntu and Canonical, discusses his journey from pioneering internet technologies in South Africa to revolutionizing the Linux ecosystem and shares his vision for the future of secure, open-source software.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2PBkQK5gWOY
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/6kCgdNBehfo3kwcIARfZKA?si=kBzeznh6R9upTB6zaQuMYg
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/nerding-out-with-viktor/id1722663295?i=1000659209928
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/0a7e31ae-23a2-458d-bc04-dd89c7f28461/nerding-out-with-viktor-exploring-the-depths-of-linux-and-open-source-innovation-with-mark-shuttleworth
---

In this captivating episode of "Nerding Out With Viktor," I am joined by Mark Shuttleworth, the visionary founder of Ubuntu and Canonical. Our conversation traverses Mark's extraordinary journey from the early days of the internet in South Africa to his pivotal role in shaping the Linux ecosystem.

### Part 1: Early Fascination with Technology

Mark begins by sharing his early fascination with technology and the emergence of the internet in South Africa during the mid-'90s. He recalls how his dual interest in science and business led him to start a certificate authority (CA) company, seizing the global potential of e-commerce and navigating the complex crypto regulations of the time. This venture eventually caught the attention of Netscape, leading to significant success and his subsequent involvement with Verisign.

### Part 2: From Business to Space Exploration

After selling his company to Verisign, Mark takes us through his remarkable transition from the business world to space exploration. He delves into his intensive training in Russia and his experience as the second private space tourist, emphasizing the rich history and profound experiences he had in Star City. Mark's stories from this period are both inspiring and enlightening, offering a unique glimpse into the world of private space travel.

### Part 3: The Inception of Ubuntu

We then shift our discussion to the inception of Ubuntu. Mark explains his deep admiration for Debian's technical and social framework and his vision to make Linux more accessible to a broader audience. He details the challenges and motivations behind creating Ubuntu, a distribution designed to complement Debian while addressing the needs of both the open-source community and enterprise users. We explore Ubuntu's evolution, including significant decisions like adopting SystemD and the introduction of Snaps.

### Part 4: The Development and Philosophy Behind Snaps

Delving deeper, Mark provides insightful perspectives on the development and philosophy behind Snaps. He emphasizes the importance of secure application distribution and discusses the challenges of integrating complex desktop environments. Our conversation touches on his leadership within the open-source community, the controversy surrounding Snaps, and the necessity of continuous innovation to meet the evolving demands of technology users.

### Part 5: Exploring Ubuntu Core and Secure Systems

As we continue, Mark introduces the concept of Ubuntu Core, an innovative approach to building secure, transactional systems for IoT devices and desktops. He elaborates on the technical intricacies and shares his vision of a future where devices can be securely managed and updated, ensuring integrity and reliability. This segment offers a fascinating look into how Ubuntu is positioning itself at the forefront of secure and efficient computing solutions.

### Part 6: Open-Source Licensing and Sustainable Business Models

In the final part of our conversation, we discuss the current landscape of open-source licensing, the challenges faced by small independent producers, and the importance of sustainable business models in the open-source ecosystem. Mark advocates for a balanced approach, recognizing the diverse needs and motivations of different stakeholders in the software industry. We examine how these dynamics influence the development and distribution of open-source software and what the future might hold for this collaborative model.

Join us for this enlightening and thought-provoking episode as we delve deep into the past, present, and future of Linux, open-source software, and the technological landscape with one of the industry's leading innovators. Whether you're a tech enthusiast, a cloud computing professional, or someone interested in the future of IT infrastructure, this episode is packed with valuable insights and engaging discussions.

Don't miss out on this deep dive into the world of computing with Mark Shuttleworth. Tune in to "Nerding Out With Viktor" and get ready to explore the remarkable journey and visionary insights that continue to shape the tech world today.
