---
layout: podcast
title: |
    Unlocking Firmware Secrets with Christian Walter: BIOS Vulnerabilities & Security Insights
date: "2024-07-01T00:00:00+01:00"
duration: 64
episode: 14
guest: Christian Walter
description: |
    Join me on "Nerding Out with Viktor" as I explore the world of firmware and hardware security with Christian Walter from 9Elements. With over six years of experience in IT security and firmware development, Christian discusses recent vulnerabilities like LogoFail and PixiFail, the complexities of BIOS security, and the importance of Trusted Platform Modules (TPMs). We also delve into 9Elements' Firmware CI project and the efforts of the Open Source Firmware Foundation to advance open-source firmware. This episode is a must-listen for anyone interested in the future of IT security and hardware.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0tvZ6jTgt1k
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/1VGVClaD6LaaT3D1ticurov
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/unlocking-firmware-secrets-with-christian-walter-bios/id1722663295?i=1000660736972
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/698bf74f-b1a6-4af6-8927-2fc399410dee/nerding-out-with-viktor-unlocking-firmware-secrets-with-christian-walter-bios-vulnerabilities-security-insights
---

In this captivating episode of "Nerding Out with Viktor," host Viktor Petersson sits down with Christian Walter, a renowned expert in firmware and IT security from 9Elements. With over six years of experience, Christian offers an unparalleled deep dive into the world of firmware, shedding light on the most pressing issues facing the industry today.

As they kick off the conversation, Christian shares his background, highlighting his role as the leader of the firmware development department at 9Elements and his involvement with ventures like a company focused on firmware testing and the Open Source Firmware Foundation. This glimpse into Christian's expertise sets the stage for an engaging discussion that delves into the intricacies of firmware security.

The conversation takes a fascinating turn as Christian delves into recent high-profile firmware vulnerabilities, such as LogoFail and PixiFail. With his exceptional technical knowledge, he breaks down the technical aspects and broader implications of these vulnerabilities, underscoring the significant security challenges they present. Viktor and Christian engage in a thought-provoking discussion about the urgent need for improved security measures in firmware, making it an essential listen for anyone passionate about IT security.

The conversation then shifts towards the complexities of BIOS security, with Christian highlighting the reuse of code bases across vendors, the challenges in auditing, and the lengthy disclosure periods for firmware vulnerabilities. This insightful exploration of BIOS security provides listeners with a nuanced understanding of the industry's current state and the pressing need for innovation.

As they delve deeper into the world of Trusted Platform Modules (TPMs), Christian provides an engaging overview of the different types of TPMs, their role in hardware security, and recent vulnerabilities. He shares a startling revelation about how attackers could unseal Intel TPMs by reassigning pins from user space, making it a must-listen for anyone invested in the future of firmware.

The conversation takes an exciting turn as Christian introduces the innovative Firmware CI project at 9Elements. This revolutionary project aims to transform firmware testing and validation by offering a user-friendly, scalable framework for continuous integration and testing on actual hardware. Viktor and Christian engage in a lively discussion about the importance of modern tooling in firmware development and how this project bridges the gap between traditional firmware practices and contemporary software development methodologies.

As the episode draws to a close, Christian shares his thoughts on the mission of the Open Source Firmware Foundation and its efforts to unite the industry in advancing open-source firmware. This inspiring conclusion underscores the potential for collaboration and innovation that exists within the world of firmware.

In this enlightening conversation, listeners will find valuable insights into the world of firmware security, BIOS complexities, TPM vulnerabilities, and innovative projects like Firmware CI. Christian Walter's expertise shines through as he provides a unique perspective on the industry's current state and its future possibilities. With Viktor Petersson at the helm, this episode is an absolute must-listen for anyone passionate about IT security, hardware, and the future of firmware.