---
layout: podcast
title: Past, Present, and Future of Computing with Bryan Cantrill, CTO of Oxide Computer Company
date: "2024-07-15T00:00:00+01:00"
duration: 83
episode: 15
guest: Bryan Cantrill
description: |
    In this episode of "Nerding Out with Viktor," Bryan Cantrill, CTO and co-founder of Oxide Computer Company, discusses his pioneering work on DTrace at Sun Microsystems, the challenges of cloud infrastructure at Joyent, and how Oxide is revolutionizing on-premises cloud computing by integrating hardware and software design.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yCyhPvLyJdY
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/6iNi1gvfUXBrwFSIrpRCpY
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/past-present-and-future-of-computing-with-bryan/id1722663295?i=1000662238863
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/bd68be9b-bf61-4c15-bbc0-179d69695d98/nerding-out-with-viktor-past-present-and-future-of-computing-with-bryan-cantrill-cto-of-oxide-computer-company

---

Welcome back to "Nerding Out with Viktor"! Today, we have the pleasure of hosting Bryan Cantrill, a name that has surfaced in numerous discussions throughout our previous episodes. Bryan is the CTO and co-founder of [Oxide Computer Company](https://oxide.computer/) and has a rich history in the field of computing. His journey is nothing short of fascinating, starting with his seminal work on DTrace at Sun Microsystems. This episode promises to be a deep dive into the world of system monitoring, innovative computing solutions, and the future of cloud infrastructure.

## Part 1: The Dawn of DTrace
We kick off the conversation by exploring Bryan’s initial claim to fame—DTrace. Developed during his time at Sun Microsystems, DTrace (Dynamic Tracing) was a groundbreaking project that allowed for dynamic instrumentation of running systems. Bryan shares his frustrations with the limitations of system observability at the time and how DTrace was designed to address these challenges. By focusing on observing rather than modifying systems, DTrace provided a safer and less invasive way to understand system behavior, setting it apart from other tools available at the time. Bryan also draws interesting parallels between DTrace and modern monitoring tools like eBPF, highlighting how DTrace’s principles continue to influence system monitoring today.

## Part 2: From Sun Microsystems to Joyent
The conversation then shifts to Bryan's experiences post-Sun Microsystems. He recounts his time at Joyent, where he faced the practical challenges of operating a public cloud on commodity hardware. This period was crucial in shaping his understanding of the limitations and potential of cloud infrastructure. Bryan details the innovative bets Joyent made, such as OS-based virtualization with zones and their adoption of open-source technologies like OpenSolaris. These experiences laid the groundwork for his future endeavors and ultimately led to the founding of Oxide Computer Company.

## Part 3: The Birth of Oxide Computer Company
At Oxide, Bryan and his team are on a mission to revolutionize cloud infrastructure. They believe that elastic, API-driven infrastructure should not be confined to the public cloud but should also be accessible on-premises. Bryan discusses how Oxide integrates hardware and software design to offer a holistic solution that ensures efficiency and flexibility. He delves into the innovative design choices made by Oxide, such as utilizing larger fans for better cooling and efficiency and developing their own service processors and operating systems. These choices not only enhance performance but also simplify system management and maintenance.

## Part 4: Current Trends and Future Directions
In the final segment of the episode, Bryan and Viktor discuss the broader trends in cloud computing. With the slowing down of Moore's Law, Bryan argues for the economic and practical benefits of owning infrastructure versus renting it from public cloud providers. He emphasizes the importance of modern, scalable, and efficient computing solutions that can be deployed both in the cloud and on-premises. Bryan makes a compelling case for Oxide's approach, highlighting how it addresses the needs of cloud-educated customers who require the benefits of cloud computing in their own data centers.

Join us for this insightful conversation as we explore the evolution of computing technology and the future of cloud infrastructure with one of the industry's leading innovators. Whether you're a tech enthusiast, a cloud computing professional, or someone interested in the future of IT infrastructure, this episode is packed with valuable insights and thought-provoking discussions.

Don't miss out on this deep dive into the world of computing with Bryan Cantrill. Tune in to "Nerding Out with Viktor" and get ready to explore the past, present, and future of cloud infrastructure.
