---
layout: podcast
title: Nerding out about security with Andrew Martin from ControlPlane
date: "2024-01-01T00:00:00+00:00"
duration: 59
episode: 1
guest: Andy Martin
description: |
    In this episode, ControlPlane's Andy Martin joins Viktor Petersson for a deep dive into Cloud Native security, sharing expert insights on penetration testing, social engineering, and the Zero Trust Security Model. As a leading voice in cybersecurity, Andy brings practical risk assessments and innovative ideas to the conversation, making it a must-listen for pros and enthusiasts alike.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X3cgc4RF_dQ
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/3C5OWcfTIqoP7gLHMAT6qK?si=f59cfbecbc0b4f2e
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/nerding-out-with-viktor/id1722663295?i=1000639804516
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/5441f8ed-1c50-49e7-aada-34885ebb0062/nerding-out-with-viktor-nerding-out-about-security-with-andrew-martin-from-controlplane

---

In this inaugural episode of "Nerding Out With Viktor," join Viktor as he delves into the intricate world of Cloud Native security with his guest, Andy Martin from ControlPlane. As a seasoned security engineer, Andy brings a wealth of experience in servicing regulated industries like finance and government, offering unique insights into the field that will captivate cybersecurity professionals and IT enthusiasts alike.

The conversation kicks off with an introduction to Andy and ControlPlane, where he shares his journey in security engineering and the evolution of his company. Viktor and Andy then revisit their memorable "Internet of Shit" conference talk, highlighting key takeaways and insights from their presentation. This sets the stage for a discussion that explores some of the most pressing concerns in cybersecurity today.

The conversation takes a critical look at Penetration Testing, breaking down its concept and discussing its role in assessing both digital and physical security systems. Andy and Viktor also navigate through the complexities of Social Engineering Attacks, discussing various forms including phishing and more sophisticated strategies that can be used to compromise even the most robust security measures.

As they delve deeper into the episode, the discussion turns to the ethics of hacking, examining the differences between Black Hat, White Hat, and Grey Hat hackers and their impact on cybersecurity. Viktor and Andy also tackle the debate of On-Prem vs. Cloud Security, offering a critical analysis of the security aspects of both on-premise and cloud-based solutions.

The conversation takes another turn as they examine the relevance and limitations of Compliance and Certifications in Cybersecurity, focusing specifically on certifications like SOC 2 and ISO 27001. This is followed by an introduction to the Zero Trust Security Model, where Viktor and Andy discuss its importance and how it can be implemented in modern cybersecurity practices.

One of the highlights of the episode comes when Andy conducts a practical Threat Modeling Exercise, showcasing real-time risk assessment strategies that listeners can apply to their own organizations. Finally, Viktor and Andy dive into Supply Chain Security and Software Bills of Materials (SBOMs), discussing the challenges and importance of these concepts in software development.

Throughout this engaging and informative conversation, Viktor's conversational style makes even the most complex topics accessible to a broad audience. The episode is a treasure trove of information for cybersecurity professionals, IT enthusiasts, and anyone interested in the latest trends and practices in digital security. Don't miss out on the opportunity to subscribe, like, and share this insightful discussion on "Nerding Out With Viktor."