---
layout: podcast
title: |
    Transforming Tech with Eben Upton: Exploring Raspberry Pi’s Global Impact from Education to Industry
date: "2024-06-03T00:00:00+01:00"
duration: 81
episode: 12
guest: Eben Upton
description: |
   In this episode, Eben Upton shares his visionary journey behind Raspberry Pi, from revolutionizing computer science education to exploring industrial applications like digital signage solutions with Screenly. Joining Viktor, Eben dives into the intricacies of SD card durability and the potential of RISC-V in future platforms, offering a unique perspective on innovation and technology.
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LI7poeZ3FxI
spotify: https://open.spotify.com/episode/0ad3kZIjwd4lgo9i1ZRo8I
apple: https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/transforming-tech-with-eben-upton-exploring-raspberry/id1722663295?i=1000657611219
amazon: https://music.amazon.co.uk/podcasts/c8e79c21-2dde-4597-b9fb-257ecbc2bf29/episodes/5e781732-e618-4b2b-a273-9c80e2b2b522/nerding-out-with-viktor-transforming-tech-with-eben-upton-exploring-raspberry-pi%E2%80%99s-global-impact-from-education-to-industry
---

In this engaging episode of "Nerding Out with Viktor," the host, Viktor Petersson, sits down with Eben Upton, the visionary founder of the Raspberry Pi Foundation, to dive into the fascinating world of affordable, programmable home computers and their far-reaching impact on education, industry, and technology enthusiasts. The conversation is a treasure trove of insights, anecdotes, and forward-thinking ideas that will captivate listeners with a medium to high level of technical knowledge.

Eben Upton's passion for computing and his early interest in home computers during the 1980s are expertly woven into the narrative by Viktor Petersson. This sets the stage for Eben's remarkable journey as he shares the story behind establishing the Raspberry Pi Foundation, with a clear goal to reignite interest in computer science among young people. The duo takes listeners on an epic ride from the 1990s when a noticeable decline in students applying to study computer science at Cambridge University sparked the idea of creating an affordable, programmable home computer.

The launch of Raspberry Pi in 2012 marked a significant milestone, selling an astonishing 100,000 units on its first day. What's remarkable is how quickly it spread across various sectors, from enthusiasts to educational and industrial applications. Eben highlights Screenly as one such company that utilized Raspberry Pi for digital signage, demonstrating the device's potential to reduce costs and improve efficiency in many businesses.

As the conversation progresses, Viktor and Eben delve into the challenges faced during the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly the supply chain crisis that affected the availability of semiconductors. The tough decisions made by the Raspberry Pi Foundation to prioritize OEM customers and maintain a steady supply of units are a testament to their commitment to supporting businesses in need. Despite these hurdles, they continued engineering efforts, culminating in the release of Raspberry Pi 5.

Eben also shares the strategic decision to manufacture Raspberry Pi in the UK, which offers benefits such as better communication with the factory and the ability to implement design changes quickly. While most components are sourced globally, the final assembly and some parts, like injection-molded plastics, are produced locally. This approach has allowed the foundation to maintain control over production and ensure high-quality standards.

The conversation then explores the potential for Raspberry Pi to adopt RISC-V, an open-source hardware instruction set architecture. Eben discusses the advantages and challenges of making this shift, including the significant engineering effort required to develop a high-performance, open-source core. While acknowledging the benefits, he hints that Raspberry Pi 6 will likely continue using ARM cores due to their maturity and ecosystem support.

The episode also covers the evolution of the Raspberry Pi software stack, with Eben sharing the shift towards open standards like adopting VDPAU for Linux and moving towards a Wayland-based graphics interface. These changes aim to improve performance and compatibility, particularly for applications involving multimedia and digital signage.

One of the most relatable topics discussed is the reliability issues with SD cards, a common pain point for Raspberry Pi users. Eben explains that while there are many subpar SD cards on the market, high-quality cards like those from SanDisk have proven reliable under rigorous testing. The potential for future Raspberry Pi models to include soldered-down eMMC storage, providing a more robust alternative to SD cards, is an exciting development.

As the conversation wraps up, Viktor and Eben emphasize the importance of mentoring and supporting young people interested in technology. Eben shares a personal story about how mentors played a crucial role in his early development as a programmer, highlighting the value of guidance and encouragement in one's career.

Throughout this engaging episode, listeners are treated to a comprehensive look at the past, present, and future of Raspberry Pi, showcasing its impact on education, industry, and the broader tech community. With Eben Upton's expertise and passion shining through, this conversation is a must-listen for anyone interested in technology, innovation, and the inspiring stories behind them.

{% include transcript.html %}